From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes, all
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
three 77. Recorded live Thursday,
June 27, 2013. Support for
Hanselman. This is provided by
Tellerik offering the best in
developer tools and support online@telerik.com.
And by Franklin is.net makers
of gesture, a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details. Add gesture, PA k.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Mads Christensen about his
newly open source web essentials.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. I'm actually down
here in San Francisco at
build the sounds of sirens
behind me. No doubt. Some
windows machine somewhere is having
trouble and they've called the
police and I've got Matt
Christiansen here. We're actually heading
out in my hotel room.
We've got the keynote is
done day one, day two.
And you presented at build?
I did. Yes. What did
you show? I showed a
lot of, of the new
cool stuff that came in
visual studio 2013 for web
developers. So a lot of
new HTML capabilities, JavaScript and
browser link. Yeah. Put me
in the artery now. I
like the name artery better
than that. Yeah, I know.
But there's two things you're
working on that are really
cool. And I think browser
link is one. We'll talk
about that a little bit.
And then web essentials, which
is kind of a side
gig for you. It's actually
not, you know, I wouldn't
say it's, it's sanctioned, but
it's still your thing, right?
You own it. Yes, yes.
I'm the only developer on
it, but yeah. Well, let's
talk about that first actually,
because web essentials is kind
of this extension that you
plug into 2012 or 2013,
I think there was a
version for 2010, whereas the
original version came out for
2010, but it's not as
feature rich. It came in
pretty late. And then we
started working on 2012 and
I kinda just went ahead
and, and, and worked on
the version for 2012 early
on. So the 2010 version
does have a lot of
features, but not nearly as
much as, as many as
2012. How many people have
downloaded web essentials now we're
probably pushing 500,000. Yeah. It's
almost a half, man. It's
almost become, I think for
front end web developers on
the, on the.net platform to
be like essential. You know
what I mean? Yeah. I
think that it is why
isn't it included out of
the box while a lot
of the features actually now
are included out of the
box, but they started in
web essentials because that's just,
it's a playground. It's where
we test ideas and iterate
over a possible solutions to
problems that we all have
all front end developers have.
And, and so we don't
actually get things right. Sometimes
we know what a problem
is, but we might realize
that there were several solutions.
And so we test them
out and we actually then
measure like what works, what
doesn't work. And when we
think we got it, then
we're going to move it
in. So it's basically just
a testing ground and it's
also a way for people
to get their hands on
features way earlier than normal
because they start there. It's
basically part of our specification
planning process if you want.
Right. So, so you get
really early access to a
lot of features. Yeah. I
kind of reminds me of,
I use Gmail for my,
my internet mail and I've,
I have a, there's a
feature in Gmail called labs
and it's just random stuff.
And like, some of it
might be, you know, embed
YouTube videos and other ones
might be like change the
way this button looks. And
I think what they're doing
is, is that they're voting
and they're basically seeing how
many people want that feature.
How many people use that
feature and then every year
or so they'll graduate individual
features into the main product.
So then like send an
archive was a feature and
it moved into the main
product. Are there things that
are in labs that have
shown up in 2012? There
is for instance, lesson coffee
script, less, less than COVID
strip started in web centrals.
So did syntax highlighting for
mustache and handlebars and even
a paste, Jason as classes
actually started there and mustache
Handlebars again are not just
funny nouns, but are the
names of templating. Yeah. They're,
they're actual things. Yes. They're
real thing for those that
may not know. Yeah. So,
I mean, if you're using
Ember JS, for instance, then
you're using handlebars probably for
your templating. So we now
have nice insects highlighting, but
all that started just as
prototypes and experiments in web
essentials. Now for me, I
don't like running extensions in
visual studio cause I'm afraid
that it destabilizes Visual studio.
I don't know if that's
historical, Maybe the old way
that they used to do
that, but I haven't had
that many problems with web
essentials, like crashing stuff. Now,
why does that mean that
you're a better programmer than
the other people? There's something
about the way you wrote
it? I hear, I hear
actually hear from a lot
of people the same concerns
and I actually also have
them not, not with visual
studio anymore, but for instance,
with browsers kind of, we
know that if you have
a lot of plugins for
your browsers, that slows everything
down and, and we think
that, well, it must be
the same then for, for
visual studio, but actually the
way you hook things up
in visual studio, that's not
the case. For instance, you
don't load a particular extension
for CSS, for instance, unless
you open a CSS file.
So there, so I guess
the, the, the nature's is
different. So you're saying that
if I load it Official
studio in Weber, centrals, we
have a center. It doesn't
actually even load it when
I'm sitting File new project.
Well, essentially, actually it does
load it because it does
some things, but it does
it in a nonblocking way
and the heavy lifting of
everything that web essential does
it doesn't do one solution
load or when you open
visual studio, actually that doesn't
run at all. When you
just opened visual studio, when
you open a solution, that's
when it kicks in. Okay.
But it doesn't really do
much. It just registers some
commands. And then after that,
then you have to invoke
those commands. You have to
be in the CSS editor,
for instance, for those commands
to be loaded. Now, editing,
changing the way the editor
behaves. The, the two main
extensions that I think of
when I think of changing
how an editor behaves are
code rush and ReSharper yes.
And they do all sorts
of crazy stuff. They're painting
over the top and all
that kind of stuff. When
did extending the editors in
visual studio become less scary
and evil because you seem
to be able to, and
you and I will have
conversations late at night and
the next day you've gone
on, you've done the thing
and you've extended the editor
inside. I don't know if
it, if that's, if it
has gotten that much easier.
I think the, the initial,
like the initial hurdle that
you have to, to kind
of understand what's going on
and understand the meth structure
of, Of meth, the managing
sensibility. Yeah. Yeah. The how,
how you can kind of
inject your own code into
visual studio. You have to
kind of understand how that
works. It took me probably
six months to kind of
understand it, but when you
then get it and you
already have code that does
similar things, it's really, really
simple if you're just to
copy and modify and basically
that's what I do. I
see. So what you're saying
is that there's things where
that you might want to
expand or hovered over, or
identify a piece of information
within some CSS. And now
that you've figured out the,
where that lives in memory
going and changing the color
of something or putting a
tool tip over something is
not a big deal. It's
not a big deal. There's
actually some good samples out
there. You have to kind
of know where to look.
And, and it's not that
obvious all the time, but
there are code there's code
out there and you can
just search for it. And
that's what I did. A
lot of people think that
while I work at Microsoft,
so I have direct access
to those teams that build
the different things in visual
studio. And that's why I'm
able to do this. That's
not true. You're not using
any undocumented. I'm not like
going over to some other
team and visual studio and
asking them how to do
certain things. It's all stuff
I found online, or I
discover interfaces or something like
that. That's in that I
can just see, like that's
in the instant extensibility project.
So when you say file
new extensibility project, the SDK
lays down a lot of
templates and, and, and DLL
files that you can use.
And I just discovered them
they're basically. Okay. Yeah. So
the thing that I think
that potentials is most known
for is taking the CSS
editor and just making it
better, because I remember seeing
your presentation that you gave
to the team that had
some like bar charts. And
it was showing kind of
like from zero to a
hundred. And it was like,
here's how good our CSS
editor is. And in 2010
it was like, we're doing
30% of what we could
do. And in 200 2012,
we're doing, I don't know,
I'm just making numbers up
60% of what we're doing.
And then you said, but
if we just push a
little harder, we could do
like 98% or a hundred
percent. Yeah. And then, you
know, sometimes people believe you
and sometimes they don't and
then sometimes you just go
and do it. And that's
one of the things that
is a good way to
get things done at Microsoft
is to just simply do
it, just do it and
go back later and Show
your boss that you did
it. Yeah. You just went
off basically and said, you
know, I don't care what
those guys say. I know
what our CSS editor can
do. And you basically just
went and did it. Yeah.
Well, it, it came from,
yeah, well, it started out
being my way of testing
this CSS at a server.
So in 2012 we built
a brand new one. And
so we threw everything out.
That was the old editor,
which was the same editor
that we've used always in
visual studio. And we replaced
it with a new one
that had full extensibility and
our way of testing that
extensibility model and making sure
that the API was as
flexible as possible was to
actually build extensions. So that's
how it all started. So
it just started as me
actually testing what a developer
was coding. And so the
CSS editor in 2012, even
though it's, you know, it's
text, right, doesn't look any
different ideas. It's completely rewrite,
completely all managed code, all
very nicely done and paired
to 2010 compared to 2010
and everything before it's it's
it has a really nice
API, probably the nicest API
of all the editors, at
least to my knowledge. And,
and now we're doing the
same thing with HTML, which
is very exciting too. So
in 2013, which they announced
a couple of days ago,
the exact same thing has
been done to the HTML
editor. So the razor editor,
all that stuff completely be
ready, completely rewritten from scratch.
And th the sensibility model
is the same. The concepts
are the same as CSS.
So now we're going to
have a more similar and
familiar story. So if you've
ever done any extensibility on
CSS, transferring that knowledge to
HTML is it's pretty easy.
Actually. One of the things
that I showed in the
keynote, and I kind of
snuck it in there as
I'm showing your stuff. Right.
Yeah. Which is, you know,
cool is a hovering over
a CSS rule and then
having real world browser versions
and saying, okay, this version
of opera and this version
of Firefox, et cetera, et
cetera, where is it? You
learn that from a database
or how do you know
that stuff? That's actually pretty
funny because that's in, that
was in the box in
2012. That was not something
that we loaded later on
it, is it, is it
the knowledge or the tool
tip the knowledge, the tools
that came with web essentials,
but the knowledge of the
browsers came in the box.
Oh, we just never did
anything in a second. So
I know that in 2012,
is it in 2010 or
2012? It'll give me squiggles
and tell me if I'm
doing something I shouldn't be
doing, but it's not doing
a little tell me like,
Oh, that's not CSS three
that's. Yes, that was 2010.
Okay. That's what we're were
just doing web centers up
here. Right? Right. Remember sir,
but you're saying that it
knows that transform works 3d
transform works on 90 10
and it just doesn't do
anything with it. Correct. Where
is it? It's like a
database somewhere. That's a crime.
Well, no, all the, just
like with XML actually, Oh,
sorry. With the HTML letters
or all the, all the
schema files that make up
the intelligence and validation of
CSS actually is just XML
files somewhere within visual studio
installed directory program files, metadata.
It's actually very nicely structured.
So you have one XML
file per CSS, three module.
So it's really easy to
navigate around and CSS module.
You mean? I mean, the
actual, she says module by
the W3C. Okay. So you
have transform module. You'll have
a, you know, background is
in borders, animation, animations, and
so on. Yeah. The text
module, I think there's like
40 of them. Right? Nicely
structured, very nicely structured. Very
easy to see how to
work. I wrote a blog
post a while back on,
how do I actually add
new schemas? And I had
an example how to add
K HTML, which is the
old WebKit vendor prefix. So
you're saying that if a
new CSS module came out,
theoretically, you could add that
to visual studio and web
essentials and not have to
recompile anything. That's absolutely. That's
exactly what a web essentially
like she does. I have
every three days web essentials.
We'll see if there is
an update to the schemas
and they will just download
the new XML files. You're
kidding. Where are you for
that online on real world
validator.com and what is real
world validator.com. See that you're
just leading me down the
Primrose path. This is a,
yeah. I do have an
analytics on it and not
a lot of visitors, but,
well, yeah, but basically if
you, yeah, I hijacked F1
help, right. From CSS. So
if you ever hit F
one, when your cursors on
a property, you actually hi,
Jack. No, I don't. That's
awesome. Okay. So if I
have CSS open and I
a firewall and I have
web centers, if I hit
for help, yes, I will
get your website. Yes. But
for a good reason though,
because no, but it's why
would you go to MSDN,
which is what you normally
go to go to MSDN
to learn about CSS. It
is not the natural place.
So what I did actually
was to, I didn't just
put people on real world
validators for the fun of
it. It's actually, because you
can see in there very
clearly what browser supports, what
with linked to the specification,
with linked to the module,
all sorts of metadata like
that. Can I use.com? Yes.
Very much indeed. Interesting. Okay.
And where are you getting
that information from? Well, that's,
that was manually gathered. Jen
figured it out. Oh yeah,
no. Yeah. We went to,
I use.com and other places
to kind of see all
these things, but then it
turned out that all these
different sites actually disagree on
a lot of things. How
did you figure out the
resilient, the final word? Well,
we tried it to see.
Yeah. So of course we
have contacts over at the
IEP team. So they helped
out you think, well, no,
we needed that because we,
we, of course we want
make sure that we have
everything that all the browsers
support. So Bruce Lawson from opera
help out with, with the
opera specific stuff and all
that. So which, which actually
brings me to another thing,
the IntelliSense and the CSS
editor would help tell me
what's built in versus what's
in web, essentially, because I
know now that I can
type hyphen O or hyphen
M S and I can
get browser specific prefixes. Yeah.
That's built in, that's built
in. So we'll get to
out of the box. I
get that in 2012, you
get all the vendor specifics
built in. And if you
hit dash or hyphen first
and they all show up,
that's all building. Now I
know that a lot of
people, like, for example, Leah
Varu from the W3C has
been encouraging people to do
things prefix free. And she
might look at some aspects
of a tool like a
Weber centrals. And think of
that promotes a world full
of vendor prefixes. Yes. What
do you think about that?
And are you thinking about
changing it, such that it
encourages the user in a
different direction? Yeah, that is
a very, that is a
very interesting thing because we,
we do not want to
encourage bad behavior. Right. And
we also want to move
as, as browser stabilize. We
want to make sure that
we're ahead and we've removed
all vendor prefixes that are
no longer use. And I
got some emails, actually. They
got a lot of tweets
as well from people that
all of a sudden was
wondering, why do I not
have any dash mosque, dashed
border radios and Daz WebKit
border radius anymore. And that's
basically because we updated the
schema files and web essentials
goes out and checks for
them and they were no
longer needed. So it keeps
itself up to date. So
it actually removes the vendor
specifics that are no longer
needed. And I think the
rule I had back when
I did that was if
it's not supported, if the
standard property is supported in
Firefox for then I'm just
going to remove the Mozilla
version. And then they had
the same kind of version
you haven't cut off point.
I had a cut off
point for each of the
browser based. Okay. So then
let me ask you this.
If I already have a
CSS file, that's using these,
do you have a sweep
function that will go and
tie, you know, you're wincing.
Cause you know, you need
it. That will go through
and basically check desk. You
know what I mean? Like
where's my CSS lint. Yeah.
No, it does not do
that. It does it the
other opposite way. It does
it. If you, if you're
missing any, it will tell
you, it will not tell
you It will. It will.
Well, I will tell you
if you have Vendor specific
that no longer exists, it
will simply just say, this
does not exist. I see.
But you have to delete
it manually. Okay. Now, one
of the things that you
do is you augment in
web essentials features that aren't
necessarily features that you work
on. So for example, Howard
and the team that works
on bundling optimization, they do
their bundling and observation. If
I understand correctly, cause they're
on our team. Hope I
better understand correctly more, mostly
at runtime. Yes. You know,
you put together bundles, but
you have this cool featured.
We'll actually to that take
the idea of runtime minification
and bundling of CSS. And
you have like open a
CSS file, hit control S
it's very natural gesture. And
then a.men shows up next
to it. Yes. Which has
saved time. Yes. And then
you've got this idea of
a bundle file. That's like
a little XML file that
says these are a bundle
and then you will hook
into that. And I could
even put it into build
time. So it got a
lot of different choices about
when I could do that.
Well actually there is no
build time for either bundling
or minification in Volvo centrals.
There are no hooks at
all. But for bunny minification
actually the official nuke or
sorry, the Howard's team that
does the system with visualization,
they're actually coming up. Yeah.
They're coming out with a
funding and modification in this
build times. They are. Okay.
So that's all right. Sorry.
I misunderstood. So they will
have runtime and Build on
the web on the, on
the, on the official side.
Right. Pardon me? And then
we'll have saved time. Now,
could the shave time mess
up? Like, could you fight
with their feature? No, not
really. Because all they're all
runtime, so they will take
whatever she has filed. You
have registered with the runtime
component and whether or not
that that whether or not
that's CSS file comes from,
you know, has been generated
through a grant funding mechanism
in web essentials or, or
not, that doesn't really matter
Value than a web, essentially
saving a modified version on
when I hit save, if
I choose not to use.
Yeah. It's a personal choice.
I see. So if I
choose not to use runtime
bundling, it might just be
there waiting for me. Ready
to go. Yeah. I mean,
I like a runtime bundling
for a lot of, a
lot of things. And then
for some things I don't
like to like it, a
lot of people, they, they,
they like to serve all
their static files statically, right?
Yeah. That's a good point.
So they just want the
Fox, you understand what's happening
and you know, Yeah. So
let's say though that too,
I'm starting to realize that
this is a lot of
work and you are all
by yourself putting together Crapload
of work. And what happens
if you get hit by
a truck and web essentially
is just going to sit
there on your hard drive
and we'll never know, Well,
we're going to have well,
that, that was a real
problem until last Friday when
I opened sourced the whole
thing. Ah, so now it's
actually out in the wild
is on get up. So
it's On GitHub and I
can, like, I could add
a new module or do
something cool. Yep. And that's,
I hope you will. I
hope you will. I'm really
eager to see what people
will come up with because
there has been a lot
of interest in helping out
from the community and it
hasn't really been possible before,
but now we finally figured
out how to open source
it and you know, in
a good way. And now
it is. So hopefully we're
going to see a way
bigger momentum coming, going forward
here. Now on the, you
said that in 2012, we
updated the CSS editor. So
it would be very flexible
and got a great new
API for extensibility, which made
all of the cool stuff
you did possible. Yes. Now
in 2013 we were doing
the exact same thing to
the HTML editor. What crazy
stuff might I now want
to do in weather centrals?
And is that hooked up
so that someone could go
and see the hooks? Oh
yes. Ready and waiting. There
is already stuff in there
as I've already added smart
tags. So if you want
to add smart tax that
are so smart tech, you
know, from C sharp, it's
that little thing that shows
up whenever you implement a,
an interface. For instance, it
shows up a little, a
cliff, like little, little context
menu and just context menu
on the actual item itself.
So in this case, that
item could be an attribute.
It could be an HTML
element. Okay. And you can
invoke that a control comment,
we'll open it up and
you can basically do whatever
you want. And because you
have control calmer control dot,
Oh, sorry, control dot, sorry.
Two different features. So, but
anyway, since you have full
access to the, to the,
to the tree, the HTML
tree or Dom tree or
whatever you want to call
it, you can manipulate all
you want. So, so we
ship out of the box.
We have features that will
automatically add a height and
a attribute to an image
or basically foreign encoded. And
I've added new other stuff
that will convert an image
to a figure, an HTML
five figure tech. I wonder
if I could do something
cool with SVG and illustrator
files or come up with
some way to do that.
Oh yeah. Like now when
you, something that we couldn't
do before, that seems a
very basic is when you
have an image tag and
you point to an image
somewhere, right. Which I do
all the time. You want
to just take a food
up PNG and drag it
in and go Equals. Yeah.
And then now when you
take your cursor over it,
we can actually show a
little preview of that image
just as we could in
CSS, in line in the
inline NCSS. And it's just
like a hover tool too.
Well, what other metadata might
be inside of that image
file that I might want
to then That's exactly you
can do whatever you want.
If you can, with heightened
with is what we're already
doing with the smart tech
to insert that. But you
can, you're gonna extract all
sorts of stuff. And even
if it's like a remote
resource, you can go download
that and do all sorts
of analytics on it. For
instance, if you have a
script blog or style blog,
you can now say export
to its own file, like
at a smart tack for
that you can kind of
clean up, you can do
a lot of refactorings. All
those things become now become
possible because we changed the
HTML editor. We updated it
to this number. What about
a Twitter bootstrap specific things
so that I could say
button and then see what
are the choices of different
button styles? And then a
preview of what the button
might look like as I'm
doing that. That would, that
will be actually not that
hard. So yeah. That's what
I like hearing. It would
not be that hard. Yeah.
Yeah. It's cool. Okay. So
the second thing that you're
doing, and I got to
show this a little bit
and you can see it
on the keynote. If you
go to channel nine.msdn.com, is
this thing called browser link?
Now I like code name
artery. Yes. But somebody pointed
out that arteries only flow
blood in one direction. Yeah.
And this is a dual
directional link between the browser
and visual studio. Yes. It's
a bi-directional communication channel all
implemented in open standards, web
sockets, JavaScript, HTML. So you
have a web server inside
of visual studio editor. Yes.
Is it in the editor
or where does it know?
No, it's it's somewhere within
the visual studio process. It's
basically what it is. It's
a self hosted signal. Our
HTTP list Signal are being
the real time framework that
we're using anyways. Yeah. So
it's basically like the way
that we host web sockets
and because it's based on
signal, are it means that
we support all the browsers
that signal our supports, even
browsers that do not support
a web sockets. We will
then fall back through signal
are too long polling and
signal.  pretty much anything.
I mean, not for many
or whatever, they support all
that stuff. Okay. So wait
a second. So now in
the keynote I showed dual
or bi-directional communication between visual
studio E and Chrome. Can
I maybe hook up to
an iPhone someday? Yes You
can. Yeah. So I actually
demoed, I actually demoed how
to use the iPhone and
there's absolutely no problem. It,
it hooks up with web
sockets there. It just works.
So it doesn't really matter
what browser you've got. What
about Device? How would I
hook that up to a
device? We've done some investigation
on hooking up to a
device because that that's the
cool thing. Right? Cause it's
not necessarily on local host,
but it might be yes.
Somewhere else. Or I might
want to do a local
host tunnel of some kind.
Yeah. So the problem is
firewalling, right? You have, if
you want to connect from,
let's say you have your
windows phone and you want
to type in your, your,
you know, you have a
workstation and now from your
windows phone, you want to
type in the server. Well,
they're on the same network.
I should be able to
make it so I could
get IAS express. Yes. The
development version of iOS outside
and available and hooked up
on portal anything quickly. So
there's nothing that prohibits us
of doing that. What, what
the problem is right now
or not, not the problem.
The challenge is how do
we, how do we do
that in a very, very
easy way, because right now
you actually have to open
up firewall ports and everything
to make that communication possible.
And that that's, that's a
challenge. Right? So to be
honest, it's impossible. It's just,
it's just very difficult right
now. You didn't do it
with browser link slash artery
in this case, I just
have to figure out, I
mean, you can do it
now. Probably. Yeah. I would.
The idea is we're not
using IAS in this case,
we are using IAS express.
So it needs to be
answering with your browsers, your
computers, host name on a
certain port firewall open using
IIS. I suppose I could
do this tonight. Couldn't it?
Yeah. But, well, you still,
you're still gonna run into
that firewall issue To talk
web sockets into visual studio
itself From a remote device.
Right. So, so you still
have the same, no, not
the website. It's just accessing
the actual website. If you
can see the website, then
we can also have browsing
hook it up, but getting
from your phone and actually
seeing your iOS site on
your server is problematic. But
that could be like, what
is it called? Adobe shadow.
Yes. It could be. That
would have all of these
devices sitting on my desk.
Yep. We actually had a
prototype running off a windows
eight app that was opening
a UDP channel that would,
that would actually do that.
So you could kind of
go around any firewall issues
and all that stuff. But,
but that, that didn't seem
to be the right approach.
So, but that was just
the prototype. But the fact
is where we are right
now is that we are
actually limiting the request has
to be local. So right
now, until we figure this
out, we're actually for security
reasons, we're actually limiting it
to be only the, the
same. That makes sense. Yeah.
Interesting. The, The thing that
it's implemented first and the
one that people can see
and use and play with
today and explore is the
idea of this browser refresh.
Yes. So I can hit
control alt enter or I
can hit the button and
I can take, is there
some limit and number of
browsers, there is no limit.
So lots of hours, you
know, someone in development might
have four or five. Yeah.
And then hit refresh. But
that's more of a, and
I'm not trying to disparage
your work, but it's almost
like just a proof of
concept. Like you've shipped a
proof of concept from a
feature perspective. What's interesting. Isn't
that feature live refresh or
auto reload. What's interesting is
the, the underlayment, the communication
framework is solid signal is
proven. Yep. So now it's
like web essentials. You've got
the hooks in now. It's
what chronic crazy thing could
you think of? Yep. I
was thinking about what if
I made it? So I
was filling out a form
and I was typing in
one browser and then it
typed at the same time
and all the other browsers.
Would that be weird? I
mean, I had seen like
a grid Be weird, but
it's, it's really cool. And
that's what I built. Right.
So did you have that
too? Yeah, you're lying. No,
you're kidding. You didn't see
that? No. Okay. I just
made that up really. I'm
totally serious. I swear to
God. I just had that
idea. Okay. Well, when did
you do that? The chill
nine video. You're kidding. Yeah.
Wow. Very cool. So you're
going to say, Oh wow.
All right. So then you
mail you, did you build
that? What has it been
an extension of some kind,
That's an extension that took
me I'll guess maybe eight
minutes to write that. What
happens if it gets out
of sync? I guess it
really can't because you're going
on a name value pair
basis. Huh? Well, why would
it get out of sync?
I don't know. The type
too fast in one browser
has different behavior than another.
Yeah. So you need to,
you need to see the
talk because I actually show
off something that's really funny
as well. And cool. I'm
not sure how useful it
is, but that's the whole
point. That's the whole point
to experiment. Like I have
one, let's say that you
have two browsers open and
you're on the same URL.
Let's say that one of
the browsers, you now scroll
down to the bottom of
the page because that's the
part that you're not working
on right now. What if
you want all your other
browsers to kind of scroll
down to that same location
I've implemented. So if you
hit control all, enter in
your browser, all the other
browsers will align to that.
So if, if they're on
the same URL, they will
scroll to the same position.
But if they're on a
different URL, they will navigate
to the right girl. So
you can kind of sync
up your browsers and basically
what it is. It's just
a, it's a process of
browser communication, where they just
relay that communication over the
browser link. I see. But
if you open up a
new URL that next year
I'll have to reattach that
connection. The every time there's
a refresh going on, they,
they, they reconnect. Yes. But
that's really fast. That's not,
that's not something you're gonna
notice. That's really cool. Yeah.
Yeah. So right now we
were working on how to
do live CSS update. So
the one I showed was
every time you save the
CSS file, all the browsers,
just refresh the CSS files,
not the actual of the
whole page. So it just,
How do you do that?
You'd have to basically go
in and run like a
reset and then reapply them
all. Yeah. It's actually very,
very simple. I'll show you
the code. There's probably 10
lines of JavaScript altogether, but
basically I just, I just
run through all the linked
style sheets and basically just
attach a, like a random
number to the query string
that makes, that makes the
browser reload them. Okay. Let
me ask you this then.
And this is a more
controversial question in a world
where a lot of developers
are doing Chrome and dev
tools and sublime. What's the
point of, of, of a
big fat quote, unquote IDE
like visual studio, you know,
things like project meteor For
me, it's, it's, it's about
productivity. It's about that. I'm
in, I'm in one tool
and the more I can
stay there and productive the
better, what I really don't
like is that I have
to go search for stuff
online and I have to
use console apps and I
have to use all sort
of command line tools and
just different tools in general,
to do the stuff that
I have to do every
day. And all that context
switching for me is like
really problematic. And it gets
me out of the sewn.
You know, you know, as
a developer, we get in
the zone. I want to
stay there as long as
possible. And I can do
that if I can get
away, get all friction away.
And if I can minimize
all the time that my
environment kind of gets in
the way, so we want
to get the details, right.
We want to get the
ID out of the way.
And actually we want to
be a little bit better
than that because we want
something that's called a think.
IDE, if you're going to
think of a thinking idea,
thinking ID, how can we
get the IDE to be
knowing what your next move
is going to be, and
then present it to you
once you need it? What
about a way that, I
mean, I'm always changing CSS
in dev tools in Chrome
when I get it right.
I want to push it
back down into my IDE
and into the N number
of CSS files. You know
what I mean? So I
change a rule. I could
go and update that rule
using Chrome as the authoritative
source. Yes. That would be
cool. That would be really
cool. And we're actually looking
into doing that. We know
how to do that. So
we have this technology to
do that through browser link.
We know what to do
now. It's just a matter
of actually doing it, but
we need to get the
infrastructure done first and all
those things. So it's something
where we're going to look
at, because what we really
want is that people should
use the workflow that they
want. Right. If they, if
they want to use Chrome
dev tools to, to do
all their pixel pushing, they
should do that. And we
should just have the option
of giving them the safe
button in Chrome or in
Firebug or, or I E
or, you know, wherever they're
comfortable and have that safe
bag. And we do know
how to do all those
steps. It's just a matter
of actually getting it done
so you can expect something
like that to be coming
down the line and people
can see, okay, so people
can go to GitHub on
your personal GitHub, Jesse, your
web central stuff that's can
get involved and they can
go to channel nine and
bill, and they can see
your talk that you didn't
build, which apparently I saw
in my dreams. Cause I
swear I totally had the
idea and you've already built.
That's crazy. That is, I
have an idea and you've
already built it as I
have the idea. Yup. That
makes me feel a little
people. I build it last
week. You bought it last
week too. Oh my goodness.
Alright. Well, thanks so much
for talking to me. Yeah.
Thanks for having me, man.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'll
see you again next week.